Module 8: Configuring Operations Management Suite Automation and Control

Lab: Configuring Operations Management Suite Automation and Control

### Exercise 1: Configure the Change Tracking Solution Pack

####   Task 1: Install the OMS agent

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal**.

2.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** web page that opens, click
    the **Settings** tile.

3.  Click **Connected Sources** and then click **Windows Servers**.

4.  Login to **LON-SQ1** and navigate to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\OMSAgent** and
    then double-click **MMASetup-AMD64.exe**.

5.  If an **Open File – Security Warning** window opens, click **Run**.

6.  In the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard that opens, on the
    **Welcome to the Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup Wizard** page, click
    **Next**.

7.  On the **Important Notes** page, click **I Agree**.

8.  On the **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.

9.  On the **Agent Setup Options** page, select **Connect the agent to Azure Log
    Analytics (OMS)** and then click **Next**.

10. On the **Azure Log Analytics** page, copy the **Workspace ID** from the
    **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1** to the **Workspace ID** on **LON-SQ1.**

11. Copy the **Primary Key** from the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1** to the
    **Workspace Key** on **LON-SQ1** and then click **Next**.

12. On the **Microsoft Update** page, click **Next**.

13. On the **Ready to Install** page, click **Install**.

14. On the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent configuration completed successfully**
    page, click **Finish**.

15. Repeat **Steps 4 – 13** substituting **LON-SQ1** for **LON-DC1**.

####   Task 2: Create Contoso's business-critical file to track

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, open **Hyper-V Manager** and connect to
    **LON-SQ1**.

2.  Login to **LON-SQ1**.

3.  Create a folder in the root of **C** named **Contoso**.

4.  In the **C:\\Contoso** folder, create a **Text file** named
    **CriticalFile.txt**.

5.  Edit the **CriticalFile.txt** file and add some text to the file and then
    save it.

6.  Close the **CriticalFile.txt.**

7.  Leave the connection to **LON-SQ1** open.

####   Task 3: Configure OMS to track changes to the file

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal**.

2.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** web page that opens, click
    the **Settings** tile.

3.  In the **Overview\\Settings** page that opens, click the **Data** tab, then
    click the **Windows File Tracking** tab

4.  In the **Windows File Change Tracking** page that opens type
    **C:\\Contoso\\CriticalFile.txt** in the **Enter path of a file to monitor**
    box and then click the **+** button.

5.  From the top-left of the page, click the **Save** button.

6.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open on the **Data** page.

####   Task 4: Create the Contoso's business-critical registry key to track

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **LON-SQ1** virtual machine, right-click **Start**
    and then click **Run**.

2.  In the **Run** dialog box that opens type **regedt32** in the **Open** box
    and then click **OK**.

3.  If a **User Account Control** popup window opens, click **Yes**.

4.  In the **Registry Editor** window that opens, expand **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE**
    and then click **SOFTWARE**.

5.  Right-click **SOFTWARE** and then click **New**, then click **Key**.

6.  In the **New Key \#1** folder that opens, rename the key to **Contoso** and
    then close the **Registry Editor** window.

7.  Leave the connection to **LON-SQ1** open

####   Task 5: Configure OMS to track changes to the registry key

1.  On **LON-HOST1** in the **OMS Portal** that is open on the
    **Settings\\Data** page, click **Windows Registry Tracking**.

2.  In the **Windows Registry Change Tracking** page that opens type
    **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Contoso** in the box underneath **Windows
    Registry Change Tracking** and then click the **+** button.

3.  Confirm **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Contoso** has been added to the list
    below and then from the top-left of the page click the **Save** button.

4.  From the top-left of the **Internet Explorer** page, click **Microsoft
    Operations Management Suite** to return to the home page.

5.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 6: Modify the file tracked by OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1**, in the **LON-SQ1** virtual machine, navigate to
    **C:\\Contoso**.

2.  Double-click **CriticalFile.txt** to open the file.

3.  Copy the contents of the file and then paste it back into the same file,
    thereby increasing the text and size of the file.

4.  Save the **CriticalFile.txt** file.

5.  Leave the connection to **LON-SQ1** open.

####   Task 7: Review the file change detection in OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1** in the **OMS Portal** that is open on the home page, click
    the **Change Tracking** tile.

2.  In the **Change Tracking** dashboard that opens, from the **Configuration
    Changes Summary** section, notice highlighted section in the **Files** row.

3.  In the **Changes by Configuration Type** section, under the **Type** column,
    click **Files**.

4.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, review the following information:

-   Computer

-   Name

-   FileSystemPath

-   Size

-   Type

-   ChangeCategory

1.  At the top of the **Internet Explore** page, click **Microsoft Operations
    Management Suite** to return to the home page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

![](media/6d654d37fc3b91e5a5db729bec505e80.png)

>   **Note:** It can take up to 5 minutes for the change to be detected by OMS.
>   If the change is not reflected after 5 minutes, continue with the lab and
>   return to this task at the end.

####   Task 8: Modify the registry key tracked by OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **LON-SQ1** virtual machine, right-click **Start**
    and then click **Run**.

2.  In the **Run** dialog box that opens type **regedt32** in the **Open** box
    and then click **OK**.

3.  If a **User Account Control** popup window opens, click **Yes**.

4.  In the **Registry Editor** window that opens, expand **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE**
    and then expand **SOFTWARE**.

5.  Right-click **Contoso** and then click **Delete**.

6.  In the **Confirm Key Delete** popup window that opens, click **Yes**.

7.  Close the **Registry Editor** window and then log off **LON-SQ1**.

####   Task 9: Review the registry key change detection in OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1** in the **OMS Portal** that is open on the home page, click
    the **Change Tracking** tile.

2.  In the **Change Tracking** dashboard that opens, from the **Configuration
    Changes Summary** section, notice highlighted section in the **Registry**
    row. If there is no highlighted section in the **Registry** row, skip this
    task and return to it at the end of Lab 4, this is due to performance in the
    lab environment.

3.  In the **Changes by Configuration Type** section, under the **Type** column,
    click **Registry**.

4.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, review the following information:

-   Computer

-   Name

-   RegistryPath

-   Size

-   Type

1.  At the top of the **Internet Explore** page, click **Microsoft Operations
    Management Suite** to return to the home page.

2.  Close the **OMS Porta**l open.

![](media/6d654d37fc3b91e5a5db729bec505e80.png)

>   **Note:** It can take up to 50 minutes for the change to be detected by OMS.
>   If the change is not reflected after 5 minutes, continue with the lab and
>   return to this task at the end.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have edited the Windows
File Tracking settings in OMS and added tracking for Contoso’s business-critical
files and registry keys. You should have then tested that OMS has detected the
change to the files and registry keys by editing them and then reviewing the
detected change in the Change Tracking dashboard.

### Exercise 2: Configure the Update Management Solution Pack

####   Task 1: Create a computer group for Contoso's domain controllers

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal**.

2.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** web page that opens, click
    the **Log Search** tile.

3.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens type the following query in the
    **Begin searching here** box and then click the magnifying glass icon to
    submit the query

Computer = ‘LON-DC\*’ \| Distinct Computer

1.  From the results returned, confirm **LON-DC1** is listed.

2.  From the top of the **Log Search** page, click **Save**.

3.  In the **Save Search** page that opens type **Domain Controllers** in the
    **Name** box.

4.  Type **CONTOSO** in the category box.

5.  Click **Yes** under **Save this query as a computer group**.

6.  Click **Save**.

7.  From the top of the **Internet Explorer** page, click **Microsoft Operations
    Management Suite** to return to the home page.

8.  Click the **Settings** tile and then click **Computer Groups**.

9.  Click the **Saved Groups** tab and then confirm the **CONTOSO:Domain
    Controllers** Computer Group is listed.

10. Click the magnifying glass in the **View Members** column for the
    **CONTOSO:Domain Controllers** Computer Group.

11. In the **Log Search** blade that opens, confirm **LON-DC1.contoso.com** is
    listed in the results.

12. From the top of the **Internet Explorer** page, click **Microsoft Operations
    Management Suite** to return to the home page.

13. Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 2: Create an update deployment for Contoso's domain controllers

1.  On **LON-HOST1**, in the **OMS Portal**, click the **Update Management**
    tile.

2.  In the **Update Management** dashboard that opens, click the **Manage Update
    Deployments** tile.

3.  In the **Update Deployments** page that opens, click **Add**.

4.  In the **New Update Deployment** page that opens, configure the settings as
    shown below:

-   Name: **All Domain Controllers**

-   Computers: **CONTOSO:Domain Controllers**

-   Schedule\\Time Zone: **Select your time zone**

-   Schedule\\Schedule Type: **One Time**

-   Start Time: **Leave as default but make a note of the time shown**

-   Duration: **60 minutes**

1.  Click **Save**.

2.  Confirm the **All Domain Controllers** Update Deployment is listed in the
    **Scheduled** tab.

3.  Note the time displayed in the **Start time** column.

4.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open on the **Update Deployments** page.

####   Task 3: Confirm the update deployment has succeeded

1.  On **LON-HOST1**, in the **OMS Portal**, in the **Update Deployments** page,
    click the **Running** tab.

2.  Wait until the time noted in **Step 7** from the previous task has passed
    and confirm that the **All Domain Controllers** Update Deployment appears in
    the **Running** tab.

3.  From the desktop on **LON-HOST1,** open **Hyper-V Manager** and monitor the
    running status of the **LON-DC1** virtual machine,

4.  Wait until the virtual machine is automatically restarted.

5.  Back in the **OMS Porta**l, click the **Completed** tab and wait until the
    **All Domain Controllers** Update Deployment appears. This confirms the
    **Update Deployment** successfully completed.

6.  Close the **OMS Portal**.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a computer
group in OMS for Contoso’s domain controllers. You should have then created an
Update Deployment that uses the computer group to target updates only to
Contoso’s domain controllers. Finally, you should have confirmed that the Update
Deployment has successfully applied updates to Contoso’s domain controllers.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
