Module 18: Operating Operations Management Suite Security and Compliance

Lab: Configuring and Operating the Operations Management Suite Security and
Compliance Solution Pack

### Exercise 1: Adding the Security and Compliance Solution Pack to OMS

####   Task 1: Add the Security and Audit Solution Pack

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal**.

2.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** web page that opens, click
    the **Solutions Gallery** tile.

3.  On the **Solutions Gallery** page, under **Solution Offers**, click the
    **Security and Compliance** tile.

4.  On the **Details** page click **Add**. If the Add button is not available,
    then skip this step as the **Security and Compliance** solution has already
    been added.

5.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** returns to the **Overview** page.

####   Task 2: Confirm the Security and Compliance Solution Pack has been added to the OMS portal

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Portal,** from the **Overview** page, click
    the **Settings** tile.

2.  On the **Settings** page that opens, click **Solutions**.

3.  Confirm the **Security and Audit** and **Antimalware Assessment** solutions
    are listed.

4.  Click the **Overview** page.

5.  From the list of tiles available on the **Overview** page, confirm the
    **Security and Audit** and **Antimalware Assessment** tiles are visible.

6.  Close the **OMS Portal**. It can take up to 5 minutes for the tiles to
    become visible.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have added the Security and
Compliance Solution Pack to the OMS workspace. You should have also confirmed
that the Security and Audit solution and Antimalware Assessment solution is
available in the OMS portal.

### Exercise 2: Reviewing the Antimalware Assessment Solution Pack

####   Task 1: Review Threat Status

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Experience Center**.

2.  In the **Access the Microsoft Operations Management Suite Experience
    Center** web page that opens, complete the information boxes with relevant
    information.

3.  Select the **Security and Compliance** option under **Scenario**.

4.  Select **I accept the terms and conditions** and then click **Get Started**.

5.  In the **Let’s Get Started** page that opens, click **Download PDF**.

6.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** page that opens, from the
    **Overview** page, click **Antimalware Assessment.**

7.  On the **Antimalware Assessment** page than opens, review the following
    information in the **Threat Status** section:

-   Computers with detected threats

-   Computer name

-   Threat Status

1.  Under the **Computer Name** column, click **OMS-SEC3**.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following fields:

-   Threat

-   ThreatStatus

-   ProtectionStatus

-   TypeofProtection

-   Computer

1.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Antimalware Assessment**
    overview page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

####   Task 2: Review Detected Threats

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** from the
    **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard review the information in the
    **Detected Threats** section including the following:

-   Threat Name

-   Computers

1.  Under the **Threat Name** column, click **Virus:DOS/EICAR_Test_File**.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

-   Threat

-   ThreatStatus

-   TypeofProtection

-   ProtectionStatusDetails

-   Computer

1.  Click **{+} show more** and review the information in the following fields:

-   SourceSystem

-   ComputerEnvironment

1.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Antimalware Assessment**
    overview page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

####   Task 3: Review Protection Status

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** from the
    **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard review the information in the
    **Protection Status** section including the following:

-   Computers with insufficient protection

-   Protection Status

-   Computers

1.  Under the **Protection Status** column, click **Signature out of date**.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the computers that are listed in the query results, then click
    **POS001**. If **POS001** is not available, click a different computer
    instead,

4.  Review the information returned by the query including:

-   ThreatStatus

-   TypeofProtection

-   ProtectionStatusDetails

-   Computer

1.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Antimalware Assessment**
    overview page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

####   Task 4: Review Type of Protection

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** from the
    **Antimalware Assessment** dashboard review the information in the **Type of
    Protection** section including the following:

-   Computers with antimalware protection

-   System Center Endpoint Protection

-   Malicious Software Removal Tool (if available)

-   Windows Defender

-   No Anti-Malware Tool was detected

1.  Under the **Protection Type** column, click **Windows Defender**

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the information returned by the query including filters such as:

-   ThreatStatus

-   TypeofProtection

-   ProtectionStatusRank

-   Computer

1.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    **OMS** overview page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have reviewed the information
available in the Antimalware Assessment dashboard to confirm it is collecting
data and reporting on detected malware.

### Exercise 3: Reviewing the Security and Audit Solution Pack

####   Task 1: Review Security Domains

1.  On **LON-HOST1**, in the **OMS Experience Center Portal**, from the
    **Overview** page, click the **Security and Audit dashboard**.

2.  Review the information in the **Security Domains** section by clicking each
    of the following tiles. Click the **Back** button after reviewing a section
    to return to the **Security and Audit** dashboard.

-   Security records over time

-   Antimalware Assessment

-   Update Assessment

-   Network Security

-   Identity and Access

-   Computers

-   Threat Intelligence

-   Baseline Assignment

1.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Security and Audit** overview
    page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

####   Task 2: Review Notable Issues

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** from the
    **Security and Audit** dashboard review the information in the **Notable
    Issues** section including the following:

-   Active Issue Types

-   Name

-   Count

-   Severity

1.  Under the **Name** column, click **Computers missing security updates**.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the computers listed in the query results and then click
    **EX01.contoso.com**.

4.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

-   Title

-   MSRCSeverity

-   Computer

-   Product

-   Classification

-   KBID

-   UpdateState

1.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Security and Audit** overview
    page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

####   Task 3: Review Detections

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** from the
    **Security and Audit** dashboard review the information in the
    **Detections** section including the following:

-   Detections Over Time

-   Name

-   Count

-   Severity

1.  Under the **Name** column, click **Failed RDP Brute Force Attack**. If the
    **Failed RDP Brute Force Attack** detection is not displayed, click a
    different detection instead.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

-   Computer

-   Provider

-   Alert Severity

-   Source

-   Failed Attempts

-   Failed User Logons

1.  Note that if you selected a detection other than the **RDP Brute Force
    Attack** detection, the properties displayed above may differ. If this is
    the case, review the different properties instead.

2.  If available, review the information in the **Failed Brite Force Attack**
    and **Remediation Steps** sections.

3.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Security and Audit** overview
    page.

4.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

####   Task 4: Review Threat Intelligence

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Experience Center Portal,** from the
    **Security and Audit** dashboard review the information in the **Threat
    Intelligence** section including the following:

-   Servers with outbound malicious traffic.

-   Detected threat types.

-   Location map.

1.  In the location map section, click the red icon and then review the details
    displayed in the popup window. If the red icon does not appear, continue to
    **Step 5**.

2.  Click **Open Dashboard**.

3.  In the **Threat Intelligence** dashboard that opens, review the following
    sections:

-   Threat Breakdown

-   Threat Location

1.  In the location map, click the red icon and then review the **Threat
    Details** section. If there is no red icon displayed on the map, perform the
    following steps:

-   Click the **Data based on…** link from the top of the page.

-   Click **Custom**.

-   Change the date in the left-hand side to a date three months ago, and then
    click **OK**.

-   Return to **Step 3**.

1.  In the **Threat Details** section, click the **X Outgoing** hyperlink under
    **Traffic**.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

3.  Review the information returned by the query including the following:

-   Computer

-   FirewallAction

-   Protocol

-   SourceIP

-   DesinationIP

-   CommunicationDirection

-   Severity

-   MaliciousIPCountry

1.  Click the **Back** button to return to the **Security and Audit** overview
    page.

2.  Close the **OMS Experience Center Portal**.

####   Task 5: Review Common Security Queries

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal.**

2.  Login to the **OMS Portal** with your **Microsoft Account** credentials.

3.  In the **OMS Portal**, open the **Security and Audit** dashboard.

4.  From the **Common Security Queries** section, click the following hyperlinks
    and review the information returned in the **Log Search** blade. Note, you
    will need to close the **Search quick tips** popup window before you can
    review the query results. Click the **Back** button to return to the
    **Security and Audit** dashboard after reviewing each query. Note that not
    all queries will return information. This is expected.

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

If the **Common Security Queries** section is not available in the **Security
and Audit** dashboard, they can be found by following the steps below:

1.  From the **OMS Portal** home page, click the **Log Search** tile.

2.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, click the **Favorites** button at
    the top of the page.

3.  In the **Saved Searches** blade that opens to the right of the page, scroll
    down to the **Security and Audit** section.

4.  Click the **Show All** hyperlink to show a list of available queries, this
    includes all queries that were originally provided in the **Common Security
    Queries** section.

-   All Security Activities

-   Security Activities on the computer

-   Logon Activity by Computer

-   Accounts who terminated Microsoft antimalware on any computer

-   Computers where the Microsoft antimalware process was terminated

-   Computers where “hash.exe” was executed

-   All Process names that were executed

-   Logon Activity by Account

-   Accounts who remotely logged on the computer

1.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    home page of the **OMS Portal**.

2.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have reviewed the information
available in the Security and Audit dashboard to confirm it is collecting data
and reporting on detected security events.

### Exercise 4: Reviewing data collected from Operations Manager

####   Task 1: Create a query to return Operations Manager data

1.  In the **OMS Portal** that was left open in the previous task, click the
    **Security and Audit** tile.

2.  In the **Security and Audit** page that opens, from the **Common Security
    Queries** section, click the hyperlink under **All Security Activities**.

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

If the **Common Security Queries** section is not available in the **Security
and Audit** dashboard, follow the steps included in the note from the previous
task to find them.

1.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, close the **Search quick tips**
    popup window.

2.  Review the results that are returned.

3.  Review the query that was used to return the results.

4.  Edit the query to reflect the query below:

Type=SecurityEvent SourceSystem = "OpsManager" \| Select
TimeGenerated,Account,Activity,Computer,SourceSystem

1.  Click the magnifying glass button to execute the query.

2.  Review the results returned and confirm that the **SourceSystem** field
    displays **OpsManager**.

3.  Leave the **Log Search** window open.

####   Task 2: Customize the query for a specific computer

1.  On **LON-HOST1,** in the **OMS Portal,** from the **Log Search** blade that
    was left open in the previous task, edit the query as shown below:

Type=SecurityEvent SourceSystem = "OpsManager" Computer = "LON-DC1.contoso.com"
\| Select TimeGenerated,Account,Activity,Computer,SourceSystem,Computer

1.  Click the magnifying glass to execute the query.

2.  Review the results and confirm that only events that have a **SourceSystem**
    of **OpsManager** and a **Computer** of **LON-DC1.contoso.com** are
    returned.

3.  Close the **Log Search** window and then close the **OMS Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have designed a query using the Log
Search feature in OMS to return all security events collected from Operations
Manager agents. You should have also customized the query to return data from a
specific computer that hosts the Operations Manager agent.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
