Module 11: Configuring Operations Management Suite Insight and Analytics

Lab: Configuring the Operations Management Suite Insight and Analytics Solution
Packs

### Exercise 1: Adding the Insight and Analytics Solution Pack and deploying Agents

####   Task 1: Add the Insight and Analytics solution pack to OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal.**

2.  In the **OMS Porta**l that opens, from the home page, click the **Solutions
    Gallery** tile.

3.  In the **Solutions Gallery** page that opens, under **Solution offers,**
    click **Insight and Analytics**.

4.  In the **Insight and Analytics** page that opens, click **Add**. If the
    **Add** option does not appear then skip this step as the solution has
    already been added.

5.  Wait until the **OMS Porta**l returns to the home page automatically.

6.  From the **OMS Portal** home page confirm the following tiles are visible:

-   Service Map

-   Network Performance Monitor

1.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 2: Install OMS agents

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Settings** tile.

2.  In the **Settings** page that opens, click the **Connected Sources** tab and
    then click the **Windows Servers** tab.

3.  In the **OMS Portal**, from the details pane, copy the **Workspace ID** and
    the **Primary Key** and pate them into a new **Notepad** document.

4.  Logon to **LON-DC1** and then navigate to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\OMSAgent**
    and then double-click **MMASetup-AMD64.exe**. If you have already installed
    the **OMS Agent** on **LON-DC1** as part of the **Automation and Control**
    course then skip this step and steps **5 – 12**.

5.  In the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup Wizard** that opens, on the
    **Welcome to the Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup Wizard** page, click
    **Next**.

6.  On the **Important Notice** page, click **I Agree**.

7.  On the **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Agent Setup Options** page, select **Connect the agent to Azure Log
    Analytics (OMS)** and then click **Next**.

9.  On the **Azure Log Analytics** page, paste the **Workspace ID** copied in
    **Step 6 i**nto the **Workspace ID** box.

10. Paste the **Primary Key** copied in **Step 6** into the **Workspace Key**
    box and then click **Next**.

11. On the **Ready to Install** page, click **Install**.

12. Wait until the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent configuration completed
    successfully** page appears and then click **Finish**.

13. Repeat **Steps 4 – 12** substituting **LON-DC1** for **LON-SQ1**.If you have
    already installed the **OMS Agent** on **LON-SQ1** as part of the
    **Automation and Control** course, then skip this step.

14. Repeat Steps **4 – 12 s**ubstituting **LON-DC1** for **LON-AP1.**

15. In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1** click the **Microsoft Operations
    Management Suite** title to return to the home page.

16. Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

![](media/6d654d37fc3b91e5a5db729bec505e80.png)

>   **Note:** If you have previously run the **Automation and Control** course
>   then the **OMS Agent** has already been installed on **LON-DC1** and
>   **LON-SQ1.** In this case, only install the agent on **LON-AP1**.

####   Task 3: Install Service Map agents

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Service Map** tile.

2.  In the **Service Map** page that opens, click **Add Machines**.

3.  In the **Configure** page that opens, click **Download Agent for Windows**.

4.  Wait until the **InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe** file has downloaded
    and then navigate to **C:\\Users\\Administrator\\Downloads**.

5.  Copy the **InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe** file and then paste it to
    the following locations:

-   \\\\LON-DC1\\C\$

-   \\\\LON-SQ1\\C\$

-   \\\\LON-AP1\\C\$

1.  Logon to **LON-DC1** and then from the **C:\\** folder double-click
    **InstallDependencyAgent-Windows.exe**.

2.  In the **Dependency Agent 9.1.0 Setup** wizard that opens, on the **License
    Agreement** page, click **I Agree**.

3.  On the **Completing the Dependency Agent Setup Wizard** page, click
    **Finish**.

4.  Repeat **Steps 6 – 8** substituting **LON-DC1** for **LON-SQ1.**

5.  Repeat Steps **6 – 8** substituting **LON-DC1** for **LON-AP1**.

6.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1** click the **Microsoft Operations
    Management Suite** title to return to the home page.

7.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 4: Confirm data population in Service Map and Network Performance Monitor

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Network Performance
    Monitor** tile.

2.  In the **Network Performance Monitor Configuration** page that opens, select
    **Use TCP for synthetic transactions** and then click **Submit**.

3.  Under the **3. Create new networks** section, click the **Start creating New
    Networks** link.

4.  Click the **Networks** tab.

5.  Confirm the **Default** network is listed and has a **Subnetwork** count of
    **4**.

6.  From the top of the page, click the **Network Performance Monitor** title,
    then click the **Configure** button.

7.  Click the **Nodes** tab.

8.  Confirm the following nodes are listed:

-   LON-DC1

-   LON-SQ1

-   LON-AP1

1.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    home page.

2.  Click the **Service Map** tile.

3.  In the **Service Map** page that opens, in the left-hand pane, confirm the
    following computers are listed:

-   LON-DC1

-   LON-SQ1

-   LON-AP1

1.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    home page.

2.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have added the Insight and
Analytics Solution Pack. You should have then deployed both the OMS and Service
Map agent to relevant computers that will be included in application and network
monitoring. Finally, you should have confirmed that the Service Map and Network
Performance Monitor Dashboards are being populated with relevant data.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Networks in the Network Performance Monitor dashboard

####   Task 1: Configure Networks and Subnetworks

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Network Performance
    Monitor** tile.

2.  In the **Network Performance Monitor Configuration** page that opens, click
    the **Networks** tab.

3.  Click **Add Network**.

4.  Configure the **Network** settings as follows:

-   Network Name. **Contoso Finance Network**

-   Description. **This network includes all Finance Application servers.**

1.  In the **Unallocated Subnetworks** section, click **172.10.0.0/16** and then
    click **Add**.

2.  Click **Save**.

3.  Click **Add Network.**

4.  Configure the **Network** settings as follows:

-   Network Name. **Contoso HR Network**

-   Description. **This network includes all HR Application servers.**

1.  In the **Unallocated Subnetworks** section, click **192.168.0.0/24** and
    then click **Add**.

2.  Click **Save**.

3.  Click **Add Network**.

4.  Configure the **Network** settings as follows:

-   Network Name. **Contoso Corp Network**

-   Description. **This network includes all corporate servers**

1.  In the **Unallocated Subnetworks** section, click **10.0.0.0/8** and then
    click **Add**.

2.  Click **Save**.

3.  Confirm the **Contoso Finance Network, Contoso HR Network** and **Contoso
    Corp Network** are listed in the **Networks** tab.

4.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    home page.

5.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 2: Configure Node monitoring

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Network Performance
    Monitor** tile.

2.  In the **Network Performance Monitor** page that opens, click the
    **Configure** button.

3.  In the **Network Performance Monitor Configuration** page that opens, click
    the **Nodes** tab.

4.  Click **LON-DC1** and then from the details pane select **Use for
    Monitoring** and then click **Save**.

5.  Click **LON-SQ1** and then from the details pane select **Use for
    Monitoring** and then click **Save**.

6.  Click **LON-AP1** and then from the details pane select **Use for
    Monitoring** and then click **Save**.

7.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    home page.

8.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a network for each of
Contoso’s application monitoring requirements and added the relevant subnetwork
to each network. You should have also enabled monitoring for each node detected
in the Network Performance Monitor dashboard.

### Exercise 3: Configuring Network Performance Monitor Rules

####   Task 1: Create a network monitoring rule for the HR application

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Network Performance
    Monitor** tile.

2.  In the **Network Performance Monitor** page that opens, click the
    **Configure** button.

3.  In the **Network Performance Monitor Configuration** page that opens, click
    the **Monitor** tab.

4.  Click **Add Rule**.

5.  Configure the settings of the rule as shown below. All other settings should
    remain as default:

-   Rule Name. **HR Network Monitor**

-   Description. **This rule is used to monitor the HR application network.**

-   Monitor connectivity between:

1.  Network. **Contoso HR Network**

2.  Subnetwork. **192.168.0.0/24**

3.  Network. **Contoso Corp Network**

4.  Subnetwork. **10.0.0.0/8**

-   Protocol. **ICMP**

-   Loss greater than equal to. **5%**

-   Latency greater than equal to. **10ms**

1.  Click **Save** to save the new rule.

2.  Confirm the Rule named **HR Network Monitor** appears in the list of rules.

3.  Leave the **OMS Porta**l open on the **Monitor** tab of the **Network
    Performance Configuration** page.

####   Task 2: Create a network monitoring rule for the Finance application

1.  In the **OMS Portal,** on the **Monitor** tab of the **Network Performance
    Configuration** page, click **Add Rule**.

2.  Configure the settings of the rule as shown below. All other settings should
    remain as default:

-   Rule Name. **Finance Network Monitor**

-   Description. **This rule is used to monitor the Finance application
    network.**

-   Monitor connectivity between:

1.  Network. **Contoso Finance Network**

2.  Subnetwork. **172.10.0.0/16**

3.  Network. **Contoso Corp Network**

4.  Subnetwork. **10.0.0.0/8**

-   Protocol. **ICMP**

-   Loss greater than equal to. **5%**

-   Latency greater than equal to. **10ms**

1.  Click **Save** to save the new rule.

2.  Confirm the Rule named **Finance Network Monito**r appears in the list of
    rules.

3.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open on the **Monitor** tab of the **Network
    Performance Configuration** page.

####   Task 3: Configure alert rules for the Finance and HR applications

1.  In the **OMS Portal**, on the **Monitor** tab of the **Network Performance
    Configuration** page, click the **HR Network Monitor** rule.

2.  Scroll down in the right-hand section of the page and then click **Create
    Alerts.**

3.  Wait until the **Create Alerts** link changes to **Manage Alerts**.

4.  Click **Manage Alerts**.

5.  In the **Edit Alert Rule** page that opens, review the information
    automatically populated in the following sections:

-   General

-   Schedule

-   Actions

1.  From the **Actions** sections, under **Recipients**, review the existing
    email address and then type your email address.

2.  Click **Save** to save the **Alert Rule**.

3.  Click **OK** on the **Edit Alert Rule** page.

4.  In the **Overview\\Settings** page that opens, from the **Alerts** tab,
    confirm the **NPM HR Network Monitor** alert rule is visible and enabled.

5.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title to return to the
    **OMS Portal** home page.

6.  Click the **Network Performance Monitor** tile, and then in the **Network
    Performance Monitor** page that opens, click the **Configure** button.

7.  In the **Network Performance Monitor Configuration** page that opens, click
    the **Monitor** tab.

8.  Repeat Steps **1 – 10** substituting the **HR Network Monitor** rule for the
    **Finance Network Monitor** rule.

9.  Close the **OMS Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a network monitoring
rule for the HR application network and the finance application network. You
should have configured threshold values for both latency and packet loss.
Finally, you should have configured alert rules to notify NetAdmin\@Contoso.com
by email whenever a threshold has been breached.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
