Module 5: Configuring Operations Management Suite

Lab: Configure Operations Management Suite for first time use

### Exercise 1: Initial Configuration

####   Task 1: Configure internet access for the host machine

1.  On **LON-HOST1**, from the desktop, open **Hyper-V Manager.**

2.  In **Hyper-V Manager**, shut down any running virtual machines except
    **LON-DC1**.

3.  Check the date and time on **LON-HOST1** and if it is not correct, adjust
    the date and time so it is correct.

4.  Insert the network cable into the **LON-HOST1** computer to enable internet
    access.

5.  Restart **LON-HOST1**.

6.  After L**ON-HOST1** has restarted, login using the
    **Contoso\\Administrator** credentials as noted at the beginning of this
    lab.

####   Task 2: Create an Azure subscription

1.  On **LON-HOST1** open Internet Explorer and browse to
    https://www.microsoftazurepass.com.

2.  In the **Microsoft Azure** page that opens, click **Start**.

3.  In the **Sign In** page that opens, in the **Email or phone** box, type your
    email address. Note, this email address must be associated with a
    **Microsoft Account.**

4.  Click **Next**.

5.  In the **Enter password** window that opens, type the password for the
    **Microsoft Account** and then click **Sign in.**

6.  On the **The following Microsoft Account will be used for Azure Pass** page
    that opens, confirm your **Microsoft Account** details are correct, and then
    click **Confirm Microsoft Account**.

7.  In the **Enter promo code** box that appears, type the **Azure Pass** promo
    code that was given to you at the start of this lab and then click **Claim
    Promo Code**.

8.  When the **Thank you for redeeming an Azure Pass** page appears, click
    **Activate**.

9.  In the **Azure Pass** page that opens, on the **About you** section, enter
    the following details:

-   Country/Region: **United States**

-   First name: Your First name

-   Last name: Your Last name.

-   Email address for important notification: The email address you specified in
    **Step 3** above.

-   Organization: **Contoso**

1.  Click **Next**.

2.  In the **Contact Phone number** section, provide a contact phone number and
    then click **Next**.

3.  In the **Agreement** section, select **I agree to the subscription
    agreement, offer details, and privacy statement** and then click **Sign
    up**.

4.  On the **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** page that opens, click **Get Started
    with your Azure subscription**.

5.  In the **Azure Portal** that opens, from the navigation pane, click **Azure
    Active Directory**.

6.  In the **\<username\>(default directory)** page that opens, click **Domain
    Names**.

7.  In the details pane, make a note of the text under the **Name** column. This
    is the **Domain Name**.

8.  Click **More Services** and then under **Security + Identity**, click
    **Users and groups**.

9.  In the **Users and groups** page that opens, click **All users**.

10. In the **Users and groups – All users** page, click **New user**.

11. In the **User** page that opens, configure the following settings. All other
    settings should remain as default:

-   Name: **AzureADConnect**

-   User name: **azureadconnect\@\<yourDomainName\>**

-   Directory role: Select **Global Administrator**, then click **OK**

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** Replace **\<yourDomainName\>** with the domain name noted in
>   **Step 16** above.

1.  Select **Show password** and make a note of the password.

2.  Click **Create** to create the new user.

3.  Sign out of the **Azure Portal** and then on the **Pick an account** page,
    click **Use another account**.

4.  In the **Sign in to Microsoft Azure** page that opens, type the user name
    you created in **Step 20**, into the **Email or phone** box and then click
    **Next**.

5.  Type the password that you noted in **Step 21** into the **Password** box
    and then click **Sign in**.

6.  In the **Update your password** page that opens, add the following settings:

-   Current password: The password you noted in **Step 21**.

-   New password: **Pa55w.rd**

-   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  Click Update password and sign in.

2.  After signing into the **Azure Portal,** sign out and then close **Internet
    Explorer**.

####   Task 3: Configure an Azure Identity

1.  On **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer and browse to
    **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**

2.  In the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** page that opens, click
    **Download**.

3.  In the popup window that appears at the bottom of the page click the
    drop-down list next to **Save** and then click **Save As**.

4.  In the **Save As** window that opens, click **Desktop** and then click
    **Save**.

5.  Wait until the download completes and then close **Internet Explorer**.

6.  from the desktop, double-click **AzureADConnect.msi**.

7.  If an **Open File – Security Warning** popup window appears, click **Run**.

8.  On the **Welcome to the Microsoft Azure AD Connect Setup Wizard** page,
    review and agree to the licensing terms, and then click **Continue.**

9.  On the **Express Settings** screen, select the **Use express settings**
    button.

10. On the **Connect to Azure AD** page, enter the username and password for the
    **AzureADConnect** user account created in the previous lab task, which is a
    global administrator for the **Azure Subscription** and then click **Next**.

11. On the **Connect to AD DS** page, enter the Administrative credentials for
    the Contoso domain as follows:

-   User Name: **Contoso\\Administrator**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  Click **Next**.

2.  On the **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, **select Continue without
    any verified domains** and then click **Next**.

3.  On the **Ready to configure** page, ensure the **Start the synchronization
    process when configuration completes** check box is selected, and click
    **Install**.

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** The **AzureADConnect** account is only used for AD synchronization
>   between the Contoso domain and Azure. For all other tasks in OMS you will
>   use your Microsoft account that you specified when subscribing to Azure.

####   Task 4: Configure an OMS workspace

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://login.mms.microsoft.com/signin.aspx?ref=ms_mms**

3.  In the **Sign In** page that opens type the email address of your
    **Microsoft Account** in the **Email or phone** box and then click **Next**.

4.  In the **Password** box, type the password for the **Microsoft Account** and
    then click **Sign in**.

5.  On the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** page that opens, click
    **OK**.

6.  On the **Create New Workspace** page that opens provide the following
    information:

-   Workspace Name: Your name appended with ContosoOMS

-   Workspace Region: **West Central US**

-   Name: Your First and Last name

-   Email: Your email address associated with the Microsoft Account

-   Phone Number: Your telephone number

-   Company: Your Company name

-   Country: United States

1.  Select the **I agree to the subscription agreement, offer details, and
    privacy statement** check box and then click **Create**.

2.  When prompted, click **Link** to link the **OMS Workspace** to the **Azure
    Pass** subscription and then click **OK.**

3.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** opens.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have configured a new Azure
subscription, with users synchronized to Azure to allow sign ins into OMS using
existing credentials. You should also have configured a new OMS workspace within
the Azure subscription.

### Exercise 2: Advanced Configuration

####   Task 1: Enable Internet Access for the Operations Manager Management Server

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, open **Hyper-V Manager.**

2.  In the **Hyper-V Manager Console** that opens, expand, **Hyper-V Manager**
    and then click **LON-HOST1**.

3.  From the details pane, ensure **LON-OM1** is powered off. If it is not, shut
    down **LON-OM1**.

4.  Right-click **LON-OM1** and then click **Settings**.

5.  In the **Settings for LON-OM1 on LON-HOST1** window that opens, from the
    details pane, click **Network Adapter a**nd then click **Add**.

6.  Click the drop-down list under the **Virtual Switch** section and then click
    **Internet**.

7.  Click **OK** on the **Settings for LON-OM1 on LON-HOST1** window.

8.  Right-click **LON-OM1** and then click **Start**.

####   Task 2: Re-install Operations Manager to create a new evaluation

1.  Logon to **LON-OM1** using **Contoso\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On **LON-OM1**, click **Start**, then click **Control Panel**.

3.  In the **All Control Panel Items** window that opens, click **Programs and
    Features**.

4.  In the **Program and Features** window that opens, right click **System
    Center Operations Manager** and then click **Uninstall/Change**.

5.  In the **Operations Manager Setup** window that opens, click **Remove a
    feature**.

6.  On the **Select features to remove** page, select **Management server** and
    **Operations console** and then click **Uninstall**.

7.  Wait until the uninstallation completes and then click **Close**.

8.  Close all open windows and then restart **LON-OM1**.

9.  After restarting **LON-OM1**, login using the **Contoso\\Administrator**
    account.

10. Navigate to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Media\\SystemCenter2016\\OperationsManager** and
    then double-click **Setup.exe**.

11. In the **Operations Manager** window that opens, click **Install**.

12. In the **Operations Manager Setup** wizard that opens, on **the Select
    features to install** page, select **Management server** and **Operations
    console** and then click **Next**.

13. On the **Select installation location** page, click **Next**.

14. On the **Proceed with Setup** page, click **Next**.

15. On the **Specify an installation option** page, type **SCOM2016_new** in the
    **Management group name** box and then click **Next**.

16. On the **Please read the license terms** page, **select I have read,
    understood, and agree with the license terms** and then click **Next**.

17. On the **Configure the operational database** page, type **LON-SQ1** in the
    **Server name and instance name** box and then press tab on the keyboard.

18. In the **Database name** box append **\_new** to **OperationsManager** and
    then click **Next**.

19. On **the Configure the data warehouse database** page, type **LON-SQ1** in
    the **Server name and instance name** box and then press tab on the
    keyboard.

20. In the **Database name** box append **\_new** to **OperationsManagerDW** and
    then click **Next**.

21. On the **Configure the Operations Manager accounts** page, select **Local
    System** for the **Management server action account**.

22. In the **Domain\\User Name** box for **Data Reader account** type
    **Contoso\\SCOM-DR** then in the **Password** box type **Pa\$\$w0rd**.

23. In the **Domain\\User Name** box for the **Data Writer account** type
    **Contoso\\SCOM-DW** then in the **Password** box type **Pa\$\$w0rd**.

24. Click **Next**.

25. On the **Diagnostic and Usage Data** page, click **Next**.

26. On the **Microsoft Update** page select **Off** and then click **Next**.

27. On the **Installation Summary** page, click **Install**.

28. On the **Setup is complete** page, de-select **Start the Operations console
    when the wizard closes** and then click **Close**.

29. Close all open windows and then logoff **LON-OM1**.

####   Task 3: Configure integration between OMS and System Center Operations Manager 2016

1.  Logon to **LON-OM1** using **Contoso\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On **LON-OM1**, click **Start**, expand **Microsoft System Center 2016** and
    then **click Operations Console.**

3.  Click the **Administration** workspace.

4.  Expand **‘Operations Management Suite’** and click **Connection**.

5.  Click **Register to Operations Management Suite**.

6.  In the **Operations Management Suite Onboarding Wizard** that opens, on the
    **Environment** page, select **Azure Cloud** and then click **Next**.

7.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** page that opens enter the
    **email address** and **password** of the administrator account that is
    associated with your **OMS subscription** and then click **Sign in**.

8.  After you are successfully authenticated, on the **Workspace** page, select
    the **OMS workspace** created in the **Configure an OMS Workspace** task,
    then click **Next**.

9.  On the **Summary** page, confirm your settings and if they are correct,
    click **Create**.

10. On the **Finish** page, click **Close**.

####   Task 4: Deploy and configure an OMS agent

1.  On **LON-HOST1**. log into the In the **OMS Portal** using the **OMS
    Portal** link from the desktop and your **Microsoft Account** credentials
    specified earlier in this lab.

2.  Click the **Settings** tile, and click the **Connected Sources** tab.

3.  Click **Windows Servers** and then **click Download Windows Agent (64
    bit)**.

4.  Save the **MMASetup-AMD64.exe** file to the desktop of **LON-HOST1.**

5.  Open a **Notepad** document then copy and paste the **Workspace ID** and
    **Primary Key** data from the **OMS Portal.**

6.  From the desktop on **LON-HOST1**, double-click **MMASetup-AMD64.exe**

7.  In the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard that opens, on the
    **Welcome to the Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup Wizard** page, click
    **Next**.

8.  On the **Important Notice** page, click **I Agree**.

9.  On the **Destination folder** page, click **Next**.

10. On the **Agent Setup Options** page, select **Connect the Agent to Azure Log
    Analytics (OMS)** and then click **Next**.

11. On the **Azure Log Analytics** page, paste the **Workspace ID** copied in
    Step 5 into the **Workspace ID** box, paste the **Primary Key** copied in
    **Step 5** into the **Workspace Key** box and then click **Next**.

12. On the **Ready to Install** page, click **Install**.

13. On the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent configuration completed successfully**
    page, click **Finish**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have configured OMS with Windows
Server agents, and integrated them with System Center 2016 Operations Manager.

### Exercise 3: Confirm the OMS Agent and Operations Manager are connected to OMS

####   Task 1: Confirm OMS Agent connectivity with OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1**. In the **OMS Portal**, click the **Settings** tile and
    then click **Connected Sources**.

2.  Click **Windows Servers**.

3.  Confirm from the details pane that that the **1 windows Computers Connected
    message** is displayed. This confirms that the **OMS Agent** on
    **LON-HOST1** is reporting to the **OMS Workspace.**

4.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title at the top of the
    page to return to the **OMS Portals** home page.

5.  Click the **Log Search** tile.

6.  In the **Log Search** blade that opens, type the following query into the
    **Begin searching here…** box and then click the magnifying glass:

Type=Heartbeat \| Distinct Computer

1.  From the list of results returned, confirm that **LON-HOST1** is displayed.
    This confirms the **OMS Agent** on **LON-HOST1** is currently connected to
    the **OMS Workspace** and is reporting heartbeat data.

2.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title at the top of the
    page to return to the **OMS Portals** home page.

####   Task 2: Confirm Operations Manager connectivity with OMS

1.  On **LON-HOST1**. In the **OMS Portal**, click the **Settings** tile and
    then click **Connected Sources**.

2.  Click **System Center**.

3.  From the details pane, confirm the **1 MGMT Groups Connected** message
    appears. This confirms the Operations Manager Management Group running on
    **LON-OM1** is connected to the **OMS Workspace**.

4.  Click the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** title at the top of the
    page to return to the **OMS Portals** home page.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used the OMS portal to confirm
that the OMS agent running on LON-HOST1 is reporting to the OMS workspace. You
should have also confirmed that the Operations Manager Management Group is also
reporting to the OMS Workspace.

### Exercise 4: Add Solution Packs to OMS

####   Task 1: Create an Automation Account

1.  On **LON-HOST1** open Internet Explorer and browse to
    **https://portal.azure.com/**

2.  Login to the **Azure Portal** with your **Microsoft Account** that was used
    in the lab for **Module 1.**

3.  In the **Azure Portal**, click **More Services** and then click **Automation
    Accounts**.

4.  In the **Automation Accounts** page that opens click **Add**.

5.  In the **Add Automation Account** page that opens, configure the following
    settings, all other settings should remain as default:

-   Name: **ContosoAutomation**

-   Resource Group: Select **Use Existing** and then click **mms-wcus**

1.  Click **Create**.

2.  Wait until the **ContosoAutomation** page opens automatically and then sign
    out of the **Azure Portal.**

3.  Close **Internet Explorer**.

####   Task 2: Add the Automation and Control Solution Pack

1.  On **LON-HOST1** from the desktop, double-click **OMS Portal**.

2.  In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** web page that opens, click
    the **Solutions Gallery** tile.

3.  On the **Solutions Gallery** page, under **Solution Offers**, click the
    **Automation and Control** tile.

4.  On the Details page, click **Configure Workspace**.

5.  In the **Workspace prerequisite**s page that opens, in the **Automation
    Account** section, click Use Existing and then click **ContosoAutomation**.

6.  Click **OK**, then click **Close**.

7.  Click the **Automation and Control** tile again.

8.  On the **Details** page click **Add**. If the **Add** button is not
    available, then skip this step as the **Security and Compliance** solution
    has already been added.

9.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** returns to the **Overview** page.

10. Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 3: Add the Insight and Analytics Solution Pack

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Solutions Gallery**
    tile.

2.  On the **Solutions Gallery** page, under **Solution Offers**, click the
    **Insight and Analytics** tile.

3.  In the **Details** page that opens, click **Add**. If the **Add** button is
    not available then skip this task as the solution has already been added.

4.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** returns to the home page.

5.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 4: Add the Security and Compliance Solution Pack

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Solutions Gallery**
    tile.

2.  On the **Solutions Gallery** page, under **Solution Offers**, click the
    **Security and Compliance** tile.

3.  In the **Details** page that opens, click **Add**. If the **Add** button is
    not available then skip this task as the solution has already been added.

4.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** returns to the home page.

5.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

####   Task 5: Add the Protection and Recovery Solution Pack

1.  In the **OMS Portal** on **LON-HOST1**, click the **Solutions Gallery**
    tile.

2.  On the **Solutions Gallery** page, under **Solution Offers**, click the
    **Protection and Recovery** tile.

3.  In the **Details** page that opens, click **Add**. If the **Add** button is
    not available then skip this task as the solution has already been added.

4.  Wait until the **OMS Portal** returns to the home page.

5.  Leave the **OMS Portal** open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created an Automation Account
in Azure. You should have then added the Automation and Control Solution Pack to
OMS and configure it to use the Automation Account recently created. You should
have then added the Insight and Analytics, Security and Compliance, and
Protection and Recovery Solution Packs to OMS.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
